# ABSTRACT
Plant diseases can significantly impact agricultural productivity if not promptly identified and treated. Traditional plant disease classification methods are often challenging and time-consuming. This project aims to bridge research gaps and address challenges in existing methodologies by proposing an efficient, effective multi-class plant disease classification approach. The project explores the application of pre-trained deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) in this classification task, utilizing an open dataset comprising 38 categories of various diseases and healthy plant leaves. This study evaluated the performance of pre-trained deep CNN models, including VGG19, Residual Transformer, MobileNet, EfficientNet and ResNet for precise disease identification. Infected plant leaves were used to analyse the Performance of the models are resulting the highest accuracy of 85%. And the remaining accuracies are 70.12%, 77.03%, 52.65% and 32.62% accordingly. Performance assessment was conducted using parameters such as batch size, dropout, and epoch counts, determining their accuracy, validation accuracy, validation loss, and loss. This project highlights the potential of the best model in offering accurate, real-time disease diagnostics in agricultural systems. The findings suggest that transfer learning and augmented deep learning techniques enhance the accuracy and performance of the model. 

# RESULT
The results at the various are described as below: the first step is to create dataset folder is created which consists of various images of leaves for testing process. The symptoms of the diseases in the leaf of the plant must be known accurately and trained properly stored in the dataset. A diseases affected image is selected and given to the testing process for detection of leaf for detection of fruit. Later the diseased image is resized into the correct dimensions because of unequal dimensions into pre-set dimensions. Therefore, the enhanced image is given to the preprocessing. Therefore, the diseases are detected and classified by using CNN models and the result is displayed as shown in the table. Here we display the data of the accuracy rate of the diseases in the proposed system which is resulted by using the feature extraction method. The accuracy results obtained by the deep learning model where the Maximum accuracy values obtained for each model and graphs are shown. It also shows the learning error and the total duration of training (in seconds) for constructing the classification model. The executing results in different machine configurations may show different. It is obvious that ResNet50 model obtained the highest accuracy value (85.44%), followed by EfficientNet (77.03%), VGG19(70.12%) and MobileNet(52.65%) and residual transformers(32.62%). MobileNet has less duration of training, and then VGG19. 
